<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2005, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "task.dtd">
<task id="twsicomply" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Setting the level of WS-I compliance</title>
<shortdesc>The Web services WS-I validation tools support the level of WS-I
compliance outlined in the WS-I Basic Profile 1.1, the WS-I Simple SOAP Binding
Profile 1.0 (WS-I SSBP), and the WS-I Attachments Profile 1.0 (WS-I AP). You
can choose to make your Web service compliant or non-compliant, depending
on your needs. For example, encoded style (RPC/encoded), SOAP over JMS protocols
are not WS-I compliant.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>Web services<indexterm>interoperability compliance</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>WSI<indexterm>setting compliance</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<context><p>You can set the level of compliance for either the Basic Profile
and the Simple SOAP Binding Profile, or for the Attachments Profile. You can
select from three levels of compliance with WS-I specifications:</p><ul>
<li>Require WS-I compliance - this level prevents you from creating a non-compliant
Web service.</li>
<li>Suggest WS-I compliance - this level allows you to create a non-compliant
Web service, but provides a visible warning stating how the service is non-compliant.</li>
<li>Ignore WS-I compliance - this level allows you to create a non-compliant
Web service and does not notify you of non-compliance.</li>
</ul><p>You can set the level of WS-I compliance at the workspace level, or
at the project level.</p></context>
</taskbody>
<task id="sdgfsdgs" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Set the level of WS-I compliance for the workspace</title>
<taskbody>
<context><p>To set the level of WS-I compliance for the workspace:</p></context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>From the  <b>Window</b> menu, select  <b>Preferences</b>.</cmd>
</step>
<step><cmd>Select  <b>Web Services</b> from the component tree on the left-hand
side of the panel.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Under <b>Profile Compliance and Validation</b>, select the level
of compliance you want from the drop-down lists.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Click  <b>Apply</b>, then click  <b>OK</b>.</cmd></step>
</steps>
</taskbody>
</task>
<task id="xvgdsgfsg" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Set the level of WS-I compliance for a project</title>
<taskbody>
<context><p>To set the level of WS-I compliance for a project:</p></context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>In the Project Navigator, right click and select  <b>Properties</b>.</cmd>
</step>
<step><cmd>Select  <b>Profile Compliance and Validation</b> from the component
tree on the left-hand side of the panel.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Select the level of compliance you want from the drop-down lists,
or select to have the project share the same level of WS-I compliance as the
workspace</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Click  <b>Apply</b>, then click  <b>OK</b>.</cmd></step>
</steps>
</taskbody>
<related-links>
<linklist><title>Related Concepts</title>
<link href="../concepts/cwsiover.dita" scope="local"></link>
</linklist>
</related-links>
</task>
</task>
