<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2006, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="webserviceswizardsbasicpreferences" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Web services wizards basic preferences</title>
<shortdesc>The default behaviors of the Web services wizards can be set using
the following preference panels. All preferences can be overridden in the
wizard.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>preferences<indexterm>Web services<indexterm>wizards</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>Web services<indexterm>preferences<indexterm>wizards</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section><title>Popup Dialog Selection</title><p>The dialog preferences enable
you to determine which dialog boxes that you want to see when running popup
actions. If you have disabled any of the dialogs by selecting "Do not show
this dialog again" on the first page of a Web services wizard, you can undo
your change by clearing the check box beside the dialog that you have chosen
to hide.</p></section>
<section><title>Project Topology</title><dl><dlentry>
<dt>Service project types:</dt>
<dd>Select the default service project type that the Web services wizards
will create when generating a Web service. You can also set the order in which
the project types will be listed in the wizard. Note that this selection is
simply a default and an alternate project type can be selected in the wizard.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Client project types:</dt>
<dd>Select the default client project type that the Web services wizards will
create when generating a Web service client. You can also set the order in
which the client project types will be listed in the wizard. Note that this
selection is simply a default and an alternate project type can be selected
in the wizard.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Generate Web service and the Web service client in different EAR projects:</dt>
<dd>Generating the service and client into different EAR projects can reduce
the chance of conflicts that occur when both exist in a single EAR project,
but uses more system resources.</dd>
</dlentry></dl></section>
<section><title>Resource Management</title><p>The Resource Management preferences
enable you to determine the file and folder creation and overwriting defaults
that you want to use when creating your Web service.<dl><dlentry>
<dt>Overwrite files without warning:</dt>
<dd>Selecting this will allow the wizards to overwrite any existing files
in the workspace without prompting. If it is not selected you will be prompted
each time a file needs to be overwritten.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Create folders when necessary:</dt>
<dd>Selecting this enables the wizards to create any required folders.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Check out files without warning:</dt>
<dd>Select to check out files without receiving a warning message asking for
confirmation.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Merge generated skeleton file:</dt>
<dd>This check box is disabled by default.  If this check box is enabled,
when a skeleton file of the same name already exists in the workspace, the
newly generated skeleton file will merge with the existing skeleton file.
 Enable this to preserve code that you have already modified in the existing
skeleton files.<note>When this preference is enabled, if you change the return
type of an interface, the resulting skeleton file will have a method returning
the type as defined in the new interface but would have a method body from
the original skeleton file (which would be returning a different type).  This
will result in an compilation error that the you will have to correct manually.</note></dd>
</dlentry></dl></p></section>
<section><title>Scenario Defaults</title><p>The Scenario Defaults preferences
enable you to set the following scenario defaults that you want to use when
creating your Web service:<ul>
<li>which type of Web service and client you want to be selected by default.</li>
<li>which phases of the Web service lifecycle you want to complete in the
wizard.</li>
<li>if you want the Web Services Explorer to launch by default so that you
can publish your Web service to a UDDI registry.</li>
<li>if you want the Web service SOAP traffic routed through a TCP/IP monitor
so that you can monitor the SOAP packets and optionally test them for WS-I
compliance.</li>
</ul></p></section>
<section><title>Server and Runtime</title><p>Select the server and Web service
runtime environment that you want selected by default in the Web services
wizard.</p></section>
<section><title>Test Facility Defaults</title><p>You can select whether to
have the wizard automatically launch a test facility, and you can select your
preferred type of test facility.</p></section>
<section><title>Wizard validation</title><p>The Wizard Validation preferences
page allows you to select when WSDL validation is run against WSDL files consumed
by wizards. You can select to turn off validiation, or to enable it for local
or local and remote WSDL files.</p></section>
</refbody>
</reference>
