<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2005, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "task.dtd">
<task id="treg" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Registering with a UDDI registry</title>
<titlealts>
<searchtitle>Registering with a UDDI Registry</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>In order to publish your business entity and Web service to a UDDI
registry, you must first register with the registry that you want to use.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>UDDI<indexterm>registering with a registry</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>Web services<indexterm>registering with a UDDI registry</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<context><p>There are many different private registries with which you can
register. Since each registry is different, the registry provider will give
you instructions for registering.</p><p>The following registries are automatically
added to Favorites:</p><ul>
<li>SAP UDDI Registry</li>
<li>SAP UDDI Test Registry</li>
<li>XMethods Registry</li>
<li>NTT Communications Registry</li>
</ul><p>You can use any of these registries by selecting the Favorites icon
in the Web Services Explorer toolbar. All of these registries are based on
the UDDI Business Registry Version 2. The details page of each registry will
have registration instructions.</p><p>The public production registries are
listed under Favorites. The Web Services Explorer does not preload any registries
by default.&nbsp; You can preload registries from the favorites section of
the Web Services Explorer or by using the Unit Test UDDI wizard. You can also
preload and configure private registries using the Unit Test UDDI wizard.
On the Open Registry page of the Web Services Explorer, you can select from
public registries and registries listed in your favorites to automatically
fill in the information required to open a particular registry.</p></context>
</taskbody>
<related-links>
<linklist><title>Related Concepts</title>
<link href="../../org.eclipse.jst.ws.doc.user/concepts/cwsinwsa.dita" scope="peer">
<linktext> Tools for Web services development</linktext></link>
<link href="../../org.eclipse.jst.ws.doc.user/concepts/cws.dita" scope="peer">
<linktext>Web services development</linktext></link>
<link href="../concepts/cuddi.dita"></link>
</linklist>
<linklist><title>Related Tasks</title>
<link href="tuddiexp.dita"></link>
<link href="tstrtexp.dita"></link>
</linklist>
<linklist><title>Related Reference</title>
<link href="../ref/ruddi.dita"></link>
</linklist>
</related-links>
</task>
