<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2005, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "task.dtd">
<task id="twsclienta" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Creating a Web service client using Ant tasks</title>
<titlealts>
<searchtitle>Creating an Axis runtime Web service client from a WSDL file
using command line tools</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>If you have a WSDL file you can use Ant through the Eclipse workspace
to generate a Web service client using the Axis run-time environment.</shortdesc>
<taskbody>
<prereq>Before creating the Web service client you must:<ul>
<li>complete the prerequisites listed in: <xref href="cwsaxisant.dita"></xref></li>
<li>create or import a WSDL file into the dynamic Web project you created.</li>
</ul></prereq>
<context>In order to create the Web service client you need to modify the
Ant file and the Ant properties file.</context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>Edit the Ant file (<userinput>wsgen.xml</userinput>) that you imported
in the prerequisite steps. Ensure that it points to the client Ant properties
file: it should contain a line stating <userinput>&lt;property file="axisclient.properties"/></userinput>.</cmd>
<info>Save any changes that you have made.</info></step>
<step><cmd>Edit the <userinput>axisclient.properties</userinput> file that
you imported in the prerequisite steps.</cmd>
<substeps>
<substep><cmd>Ensure that the scenarioType parameter is set to client.</cmd>
</substep>
<substep><cmd>Set the workspace parameter so that it points to the location
of your WSDL file.</cmd></substep>
<substep><cmd>All other parameters are optional and should be deleted if not
explicitly set. The default values for the remaining parameters will be retrieved
from the dynamic project settings. For additional information on how to set
these parameters refer to: <xref href="rwsclienta.dita"></xref></cmd></substep>
</substeps>
<info>Save the <userinput>axisclient.properties</userinput> file.</info></step>
<step><cmd>Right-click <userinput>wsgen.xml</userinput> and select <menucascade>
<uicontrol>Run As</uicontrol><uicontrol>Ant Build...</uicontrol></menucascade></cmd>
</step>
<step><cmd>In the dialog that opens, select the <uicontrol>JRE</uicontrol> tab
and select <uicontrol>Run in the same JRE as the workspace</uicontrol>.</cmd>
<info>Click <uicontrol>Apply</uicontrol> and then click <uicontrol>Run</uicontrol>.</info>
</step>
<step><cmd>Once your Web service has been generated the console displays a <userinput>Build
Successful</userinput> message.</cmd></step>
</steps>
<result>The following files will have been created and placed in the dynamic
Web project's WebContent\wsdl folder:<ul>
<li><i>Service_name</i>SOAP.wsdl </li>
</ul>The following files will have been created and placed in the dynamic
Web project's WebContent\WEB-INF folder:<ul>
<li>undeploy.wsdd</li>
<li>deploy.wsdd </li>
</ul>The following files will have been created and placed under the dynamic
Web project's src folder. Depending on the WSDL file on which the Web service
client is based, the files for your Web service client may be different:<ul>
<li><i>Service_name</i>Proxy.java</li>
<li>get<i>Service_name</i>.java</li>
<li>get<i>Service_name</i>Locator.java</li>
<li>get<i>Service_name</i>Soap.java</li>
<li>get<i>Service_name</i>SoapProxy.java</li>
<li>get<i>Service_name</i>SoapStub.java</li>
</ul> </result>
</taskbody>
</task>
