<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2005, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "task.dtd">
<task id="ttdwsa" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Creating a Web service using Ant tasks in the Workbench</title>
<titlealts>
<searchtitle>Creating an Axis runtime Web service using Ant tasks in the Workbench</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>You can use Ant through the Eclipse workspace to generate a Web
service using the Axis run-time environment. Both top-down and bottom-up Web
services development is supported with the Ant tasks.</shortdesc>
<taskbody>
<prereq>Before creating the Web service you must:<ul>
<li>complete the prerequisites listed in: <xref href="cwsaxisant.dita"></xref></li>
<li>if you are creating a top-down Web service, create or import a WSDL file
into the <userinput>WebConent</userinput> folder of the dynamic Web project
you created.</li>
<li>If you are creating a bottom-up Web service, create or import a Java bean
into the <userinput>src</userinput> folder of the dynamic Web project.</li>
</ul></prereq>
<context>In order to create the Web service you need to modify the Ant file
and the service Ant properties file.</context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>Edit the Ant file (<userinput>wsgen.xml</userinput>) that you imported
in the prerequisite steps. Ensure that it points to the service Ant properties
file: it should contain a line stating <userinput>&lt;property file="axisservice.properties"/></userinput>.</cmd>
<info>Save any changes that you have made.</info></step>
<step><cmd>Edit the <userinput>axisservice.properties</userinput> file that
you imported in the prerequisite steps.</cmd>
<substeps>
<substep><cmd>Ensure that the scenarioType parameter is set to service.</cmd>
</substep>
<substep><cmd>Set the workspace parameter so that it points to the location
of your WSDL file or Java bean.</cmd></substep>
<substep><cmd>All other parameters are optional and should be deleted if not
explicitly set. The default values for the remaining parameters will be retrieved
from the dynamic project settings and preferences. For additional information
on how to set these parameters refer to: </cmd><info><ul>
<li><xref href="rtdwsa.dita"></xref></li>
<li><xref href="rbuwsa.dita"></xref></li>
</ul></info></substep>
</substeps>
<info>Save the <userinput>axisservice.properties</userinput> file.</info>
</step>
<step><cmd>Right-click <userinput>wsgen.xml</userinput> and select <menucascade>
<uicontrol>Run As</uicontrol><uicontrol>Ant Build...</uicontrol></menucascade></cmd>
</step>
<step><cmd>In the dialog that opens, select the <uicontrol>JRE</uicontrol> tab
and select <uicontrol>Run in the same JRE as the workspace</uicontrol>.</cmd>
<info>Click <uicontrol>Apply</uicontrol> and then click <uicontrol>Run</uicontrol>.</info>
</step>
<step><cmd>Once your Web service has been generated the console displays a <userinput>Build
Successful</userinput> message.</cmd></step>
</steps>
<result>The WSDL file for the service will have been created and placed in
the dynamic Web project's WebContent\wsdl folder. The following files will
have been created and placed in a subdirectory of the dynamic Web project's
WebContent\WEB-INF folder:<ul>
<li>web.xml</li>
<li>undeploy.wsdd</li>
<li>deploy.wsdd </li>
</ul>If you are creating a top-down Web service, Web service files similar
to the following ones will be created and placed under the dynamic Web project's
src folder. Depending on the WSDL file on which the Web service is based,
the files for your Web service may be different:<ul>
<li><i>Service_name</i>_PortType.java</li>
<li><i>Service_name</i>_Service.java</li>
<li><i>Service_name</i>_ServiceLocator.java</li>
<li><i>Service_name</i>SOAPImpl.java</li>
<li><i>Service_name</i>SOAPSkeleton.java</li>
<li><i>Service_name</i>SOAPStub.java</li>
</ul> </result>
</taskbody>
</task>
