<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2006, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "task.dtd">
<task id="taddport" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Adding a port to a service</title>
<shortdesc>A port defines an individual endpoint by specifying a single address
for a binding. The port contains a 'binding' attribute that references a binding
and an address element that provides a specification for the endpoint.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>Web services<indexterm>adding WSDL ports</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>WSDL<indexterm>ports</indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<context><p>Services are used to group sets of related ports together. Ports
within a service have the following relationship:</p><ul>
<li>None of the ports communicate with each other (for example, the output
of one port is not the input of another).</li>
<li>If a service has several ports that share a port type, but employ different
bindings or addresses, the ports are alternatives. Each port provides semantically
equivalent behavior (within the transport and message format limitations imposed
by each binding).</li>
<li>You can determine a service's port types by examining its ports. Using
this information, a user can determine if a given machine supports all the
operations needed to complete a given task.</li>
</ul><p>To add a port to a service, complete the following steps:</p></context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>In the Design view, right-click the service you want to add a port
to, then click <b>Add Port.</b> </cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Fill in the <b>Name</b> for the port.</cmd><info>The name of the
port should provide it with a unique name amongst all the ports defined within
the service.</info></step>
<step><cmd>Select a <b>Binding</b> and <uicontrol>Protocol</uicontrol> for
the port, and enter the address of the port into the <uicontrol>Address</uicontrol> field.
Click <uicontrol>Finish</uicontrol>.</cmd><info>To select the new port, click
the port in the service object. You can change the information you entered
about this port any time in the <uicontrol>General</uicontrol> pane.</info>
</step>
<step><cmd>Type any information about the port you want the user to read in
the <b>Documentation</b> pane of the Properties vie<?Pub Caret?>w.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>To manage extensions, click the <b>Extensions</b> pane. You can
either add, sort, or remove extensions. <draft-comment>Refer to the related
tasks for more details. Add link to XSD Editor in related tasks section.</draft-comment></cmd>
</step>
</steps>
<result><p>You can create a new binding for your port, re-use an existing
one, or import one. A <b>Binding</b> defines the message format and protocol
details for operations and messages defined by a particular port type. For
more information, see <xref format="html" href="../tasks/tsetbind.dita" scope="peer">Setting
a binding</xref> .</p><p>You can also create a port using the Outline view
by right-clicking your service under the <b>Services</b> folder and clicking <b>Add
Port</b>. Your port (regardless of which view you create it in) will appear
in both the Design view and the Outline view.</p></result>
</taskbody>
<related-links>
<linklist><title>Related concepts</title>
<link href="../concepts/cwsdled.dita" scope="local"></link>
</linklist>
<linklist><title>Related tasks</title>
<link href="tcrtwsdl.dita" scope="local"></link>
<link href="tedtwsdl.dita" scope="local"></link>
</linklist>
</related-links>
</task>
<?Pub *0000003562?>
