<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2005, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "task.dtd">
<task id="taddpart" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Adding a part to a message</title>
<shortdesc>All messages contain one or more parts. Parts are a flexible mechanism
for describing the logical abstract content of a message. The message definition
associates each part with a type using a message-typing attribute.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>WSDL<indexterm>adding message parts</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>Web services<indexterm>adding WSDL message parts</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<context><p>To add a part to a message, follow these steps:</p></context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>In Design view, right-click an input, output, or fault object and
click <b>Add Part</b>. </cmd><stepresult> The part is added to the input,
output, or fault's message reference.</stepresult></step>
<step><cmd>T<?Pub Caret1?>o select the part, click the part in the port type
object.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>In the Properties view, click the <b>General</b> pane.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>In the <b>Name</b> field, type the name of the part.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Your part can refer to either a <b>type</b> or an <b>element</b>.</cmd>
<info>Select the appropriate option from the <b>Reference Kind</b> list.</info>
</step>
<step><cmd>If you selected  <b>type</b> in the <b>Reference Kind</b> list,
you now have the option of selecting an XML schema data type from the <b>Type</b> drop
down list.</cmd><info>The list of types comes from any available referenced
XML schemas.</info></step>
<step><cmd>If you selected <b>element</b> in the <b>Reference Kind</b> list,
you now have the option of selecting an XML schema element from the  <b>Element</b> drop
down list.</cmd><info>The list of elements comes from any available referenced
XML schemas.</info></step>
</steps>
<result><p> <b>Tip</b>: You can also create a new part for your message using
the Outline view. Under the  <b>Messages</b> folder, right-click your element
and click <b>Add Part</b>. Your part will automatically appear in the Outline
view (under the <b>Messages</b> folder), but it will only appear in the Design
view if the message you added it to currently does.</p></result>
</taskbody>
<related-links>
<linklist><title>Related concepts</title>
<link href="../concepts/cwsdled.dita" scope="local"></link>
</linklist>
<linklist><title>Related tasks</title>
<link href="tcrtwsdl.dita" scope="local"></link>
<link href="tedtwsdl.dita" scope="local"></link>
</linklist>
</related-links>
</task>
<?Pub *0000002672?>
