<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2006, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "task.dtd">
<task id="addingamessage" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Adding a message</title>
<shortdesc>Messages represent an abstract definition of the data being transmitted.
A message consists of logical parts, each of which is associated with a definition
within some type system. WSDL messages are top level objects that can be referenced
by an operation's input, output and fault elements (within a port type).</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm keyref="taddmess|1|WebservicesaddingWSDLmessages" status="unchanged">Web
services<indexterm>adding WSDL messages</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm
keyref="taddmess|2|WSDLmessages" status="unchanged">WSDL files<indexterm>messages</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<prereq></prereq>
<context><p>You can create a message using the Outline view by right-clicking
the <b>Messages</b> folder and clicking <b>Add Message</b>.</p><p>To create
a new message for your input, output, or fault element, complete the following
steps:</p></context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>In the Design view, right-click your input, output, or fault element
and click <b>Set Message > New Message.</b></cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Type the name of the message in the <uicontrol>General</uicontrol> pane
of the Properties view.</cmd><info>This name should be a unique amongst all
messages defined within the enclosing WSDL document.</info></step>
<step><cmd>The new message will appear in the Design view within the port
type.</cmd></step>
</steps>
<postreq><p> <b>Note</b>: Messages are referenced within a port type (specifically
by an operation's input, output and fault objects). The input, output and
fault objects within a binding do not reference messages. Hence you cannot
create a new message by right clicking on a input, output, or fault within
a binding (these are also known as binding input, binding output and binding
faults).</p><note type="tip">You can also create a new message for your input,
output, or fault element using the Outline view. Under the  <b>Port Types</b> folder,
right-click your element and click <b>Set Message > Add Message</b>. Your
message will appear in the Outline view under the <b>Messages</b> folder.</note></postreq>
</taskbody>
<task id="reusingamessage" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Reusing a message</title>
<taskbody>
<prereq>To reuse a message for your input, output, or fault element, complete
the following steps:</prereq>
<steps>
<step><cmd>In the Design view, right-click your input, output, or fault element
and click  <b>Set Message > Existing Message.</b></cmd></step>
<step><cmd>In the <b>Name</b> field, type a search string to filter the list
or leave the field blank to view all</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>You can change the scope of the list by selecting one of the following
options:</cmd><info><ul>
<li><b>Workspace</b>: lists the messages available in your workspace.</li>
<li><b>Enclosing Project</b>: lists the messages available in the project
that contains your file.</li>
<li><b>Current Resource</b>: lists the messages available in your current
file.</li>
<li><b>Working Sets</b>: lists the messages available in a specified set of
files. To specify a working set, click <b>Choose</b>. You can select files
from an existing working set or create a new working set. Once you have selected
the files, click <b>OK</b>.</li>
</ul></info></step>
<step><cmd>The existing messages will be listed. Select one and click  <b>OK</b>.</cmd>
</step>
</steps>
<postreq></postreq>
</taskbody>
</task>
<task id="importingamessage" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Importing a message</title>
<taskbody>
<prereq>If you want to import an existing message for your input, output,
or fault element, follow these steps:</prereq>
<steps>
<step><cmd>In the Design view, right-click your input, output, or fault element
and click  <b>Set Message > Existing Message.</b></cmd></step>
<step><cmd>In the <b>Name</b> field, type a search string to filter the list
or leave the field blank to view all.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>You can import a message by selecting one of the following options:</cmd>
<info><ul>
<li><b>Workspace</b>: lists the messages available in your workspace.</li>
<li><b>Enclosing Project</b>: lists the messages available in the project
that contains your file.</li>
<li><b>Working Sets</b>: lists the messages available in a specified set of
files. To specify a working set, click <b>Choose</b>. You can select files
from an existing working set or create a new working set. Once you have selected
the files, click <b>OK</b>.</li>
</ul></info></step>
<step><cmd>The messages will be listed. Select one and click <b>OK</b>.</cmd>
</step>
</steps>
<postreq>You can now add parts to your message. Parts are a flexible mechanism
for describing the logical abstract content of a message. For more information,
see <xref format="dita" href="taddpart.dita" scope="local">Adding a part to
a message</xref>.</postreq>
</taskbody>
<related-links>
<linklist><title>Related concepts</title>
<link href="../concepts/cwsdled.dita" scope="local"></link>
</linklist>
<linklist><title>Related tasks</title>
<link href="tcrtwsdl.dita" scope="local"></link>
<link href="tedtwsdl.dita" scope="local"></link>
</linklist>
</related-links>
</task>
</task>
