<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2005, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "task.dtd">
<task id="taddsrvc" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Adding a service</title>
<shortdesc>The  <systemoutput>service</systemoutput> element is a collection
of related ports and specifies the location of the service.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>Web services<indexterm>adding services to WSDL</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>WSDL<indexterm>services</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<context><p>To create a new service, follow these steps:</p></context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>In the Design view, right-click in any blank space and click <b>Add
Service</b>. To select the new service, click the service object.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>In the Properties view, click the <b>General</b> pane. In the <b>Name</b> field,
type the name of the service.</cmd><info>The name of the service provides
it with a unique name amongst all the services defined within in the enclosing
WSDL document.</info></step>
<step><cmd>Type any information about the service you want the user to read
in the <b>Documentation</b> pane.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>To manage extensions, click the <b>Extensibility</b> pane. You
can either add, sort, or remove extensions.<draft-comment> Refer to the related
tasks for more details. Add link to the XSD Editor plugin topic for "Adding
extension components"</draft-comment></cmd></step>
</steps>
<result><p> <b>Tip</b>: You can also create a service using the Outline view
by right-clicking the <b>Services</b> folder and clicking <b>Add Service</b>.</p><p>You
can now add a port to your service. A port defines an individual endpoint
by specifying a single address for a binding.</p></result>
</taskbody>
<related-links>
<linklist><title>Related concepts</title>
<link href="../concepts/cwsdled.dita" scope="local"></link>
</linklist>
<linklist><title>Related tasks</title>
<link href="tcrtwsdl.dita" scope="local"></link>
<link href="tedtwsdl.dita" scope="local"></link>
</linklist>
</related-links>
</task>
<?Pub *0000002157?>
