<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2005, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "task.dtd">
<task id="taddoper" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Adding an operation</title>
<shortdesc>An operation names the operation and lists the expected inputs
and outputs. The operation element may also contain a fault sub-element that
describes any error data the operation may return.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>WSDL<indexterm>adding operations</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>Web services<indexterm>adding WSDL operations</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog><?Pub Caret?>
<taskbody>
<context>Using these, you can declare four transmission primitives that an
endpoint can support:<ul>
<li> <b>One-way</b>. The endpoint receives a message.</li>
<li> <b>Request-response</b>. The endpoint receives a message, and sends a
correlated message.</li>
<li> <b>Solicit-response</b>. The endpoint sends a message, and receives a
correlated message.</li>
<li> <b>Notification</b>. The endpoint sends a message.</li>
</ul><p>You can add an operation to a port type or a port binding.</p><p>To
add an operation to a port type, follow these steps:</p></context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>In the Design view, right-click your port type.</cmd><info>Click <b>Add
Operation</b>. To select the new operation, click the operation in the port
type object.</info></step>
<step><cmd>In the Properties view, click the <b>General</b> pane.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>In the <b>Name</b> field, type the name of the operation.</cmd>
</step>
<step><cmd>Right click on the operation to add input, output or fault objects.</cmd>
<info>Depending on an operation's inputs and outputs it can be classified
as follows:<ul>
<li><b>One way operation</b>: input </li>
<li><b>Request response operation</b>: input, output </li>
<li><b> Solicit response operation</b>: output, input </li>
<li><b>Notification operation</b>: output</li>
</ul></info></step>
<step><cmd>In the Properties view, type any information about the operation
you wish the user to read in the  <b>Documentation</b> pane.</cmd></step>
</steps>
<result><p> <b>Tip</b>: You can also create a new operation for your port
type using the Outline view.</p></result>
</taskbody>
<related-links>
<linklist><title>Related concepts</title>
<link href="../concepts/cwsdled.dita" scope="local"></link>
</linklist>
<linklist><title>Related tasks</title>
<link href="tcrtwsdl.dita" scope="local"></link>
<link href="tedtwsdl.dita" scope="local"></link>
</linklist>
</related-links>
</task>
<?Pub *0000002602?>
