<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2006, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "task.dtd">
<task id="tcrtimpt" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Creating an import statement</title>
<shortdesc>The import statement is used to import other WSDL documents or
XML schemas into your WSDL document. This enables you to have more modular
WSDL documents. The use of the <b>import</b> statement allows the separation
of the different elements of a service definition into independent documents,
which can then be imported as needed. This technique helps in writing clearer
service definitions, by separating the definitions according to their level
of abstraction.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>Web services<indexterm>adding WSDL import statements</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>WSDL<indexterm>import statements</indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<context><p>To create an import statement, complete the following steps:</p></context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>In the Outline view, right-click the <b>Imports</b> folder and
click <b>Add Import.</b> Select your new import statement.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>In the Properties view, click the <b>General</b> pane.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Click the icon to the right of the <b>Location</b> field to open
the Select File window.<uicontrol></uicontrol>.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Select a WSDL file or XML Schema to import by doing one of the
following:</cmd><info><ul>
<li>Select a file from another project in the workspace in the <uicontrol>Workspace
Files</uicontrol> section.</li>
<li>Click <uicontrol>Import Files</uicontrol> and then <uicontrol>Browse</uicontrol> to
find and select files outside the workspace. Click <uicontrol>Finish</uicontrol> after
completing this Import wizard.<?Pub Caret?></li>
</ul>Click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol>.</info></step>
<step><cmd>Type any information about the import statement you want the user
to read in the <b>Documentation</b> pane.</cmd></step>
</steps>
<result>Once you specify the location of the document you wish to import,
the import object's label changes to reflect the specified location. Imported
WSDL components may now be visible within the editor.</result>
</taskbody>
<related-links>
<linklist><title>Related concepts</title>
<link href="../concepts/cwsdled.dita" scope="local"></link>
</linklist>
<linklist><title>Related tasks</title>
<link href="tcrtwsdl.dita" scope="local"></link>
<link href="tedtwsdl.dita" scope="local"></link>
</linklist>
</related-links>
</task>
<?Pub *0000002584?>
