<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2005, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="tcrttype" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Creating a new type for your WSDL file</title>
<shortdesc>Types describe all the data types used between the client and server.
WSDL is not tied exclusively to a specific typing system, but it uses the
W3C XML Schema specification as its default choice.</shortdesc>
<taskbody>
<context><p>WSDL allows type systems to be added via extensibility elements.
An extensibility element may appear under the  <b>types</b> element to identify
the type definition system being used and to provide an XML container element
for the type definitions.</p><p>To add an extensibility element to your WSDL
file, follow these steps:</p></context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>In the Graph view right-click the  <b>Types</b> group.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Click  <b>Add Child</b> >  <b>Add Schema</b>.&nbsp; You will be
creating an inline schema - a schema that is defined directly within the WSDL
file.</cmd><info></info></step>
<step><cmd>A schema object will appear in the group.</cmd><info>Select it.</info>
</step>
<step><cmd>The following information about your schema is listed:  </cmd>
<info><ul>
<li> <b>Prefix</b> - The prefix associated with the current namespace</li>
<li> <b>URI</b> - the target namespace for the schema</li>
<li>Other attributes, such as  <b>version</b>,  <b>language</b>, and  <b>attribute
form</b>.</li>
</ul> You can manually modify the value of any of these attributes.</info>
</step>
<step><cmd>You can also add new components to your XML schema. In the Graph
view, press the arrow icon to the left of the schema object to drill down
into the schema.</cmd><info> Now you can edit the schema within the graph
view. When finished, press the <uicontrol>Back</uicontrol> button at the top
left of the WSDL editor to return to the definition view of the WSDL document.</info>
</step>
</steps>
<result><p>For more information about XML schemas, refer to the XML schema
editor online documentation.</p></result>
</taskbody>
<related-links>
<linklist><title>Related concepts</title><?Pub Caret?>
<link href="../concepts/cwsdled.dita" scope="local"></link>
</linklist>
<linklist><title>Related tasks</title>
<link href="tcrtwsdl.dita" scope="local"></link>
<link href="tedtwsdl.dita" scope="local"></link>
</linklist>
</related-links>
</task>
<?Pub *0000002458?>
