<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2005, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "task.dtd">
<task id="timpwsdl" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Importing a WSDL file</title>
<titlealts>
<searchtitle>Importing WSDL files</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>You can import WSDL files into the workbench and open them in the
WSDL editor. Opening them in the WSDL editor provides you with an opportunity
to have a structured viewing of the WSDL file.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>WSDL<indexterm>importing</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>Web
services<indexterm>importing WSDL</indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<context><p>The Web Service wizard assists you in creating a new Web service
from a WSDL file. You must first create or import a WSDL file. A WSDL file
can be created using the WSDL editor. This is described in:  <xref href="../tasks/tcrtwsdl.dita"
scope="peer">Creating a new WSDL file</xref>. To import a WSDL file follow
the instructions below.</p><p> <uicontrol>Prerequisite:</uicontrol> Create
a project. It is recommend that you create a Web project so that the WSDL
can be easily used to generate additional artifacts and deployed.</p><p>For
more information on creating a Web project, refer to the Web application development
documentation.</p><p>To import a WSDL file to your Web project:</p></context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>Select your project in the J2EE Navigator pane, and from the <uicontrol>File</uicontrol> menu,
select <uicontrol>Import</uicontrol>.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Select <uicontrol>File System</uicontrol> and click  <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol>.</cmd>
</step>
<step><cmd>Click <uicontrol>Browse</uicontrol> <?Pub Caret?>on the next page
of the wizard to select the directories from which you would like to add the
WSDL.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>In the import selection panes, use the following methods to select
exactly the resources you want to add:  </cmd><info><ul>
<li>Expand the hierarchies in the left pane and select or clear the checkboxes
that represent the folders in the selected directory. Then in the right pane,
select or clear checkboxes for individual files.</li>
<li>Click <uicontrol>Filter Types</uicontrol> to filter the current selection
for files of a specific type.</li>
<li>Click <uicontrol>Select All</uicontrol> to select all resources in the
directory, then go through and deselect the ones that you do not want to add.</li>
<li>Click <uicontrol>Deselect All</uicontrol> to deselect all resources in
the directory, then go through and choose individual resources to add.</li>
</ul></info></step>
<step><cmd>Specify the Workbench project or folder that will be the import
destination.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>When you have finished specifying your import options, click <uicontrol>Finish.</uicontrol></cmd>
</step>
</steps>
<result><p>After you have imported a WSDL file into the workbench and opened
it in the WSDL editor, you can edit it.</p><p>Alternately, you can import
a WSDL file using the WSDL Explorer. For more information, refer to:  <xref
href="../../org.eclipse.jst.ws.consumption.ui.doc.user/tasks/twsdlexp.dita"
scope="peer"> Using the WSDL Explorer</xref>.  </p></result>
<postreq><b>Known limitation when importing WSDL:</b> On some <tm tmclass="special"
tmowner="Microsoft Corporation" tmtype="reg" trademark="Windows">Windows</tm> systems,
the "Import to File System" operation may result in saving the HTML file rather
than the desired WSDL files. The workaround and fix for this problem is documented
in <tm tmclass="special" tmowner="Microsoft Corporation" tmtype="reg" trademark="Microsoft">Microsoft</tm> Knowledge
Base article Q281119. A dialog box may ask if you want to save "WSDLFileDownloader",
the message is incorrect and does not affect the actual name of the file saved.
If the file extension displays XML when selecting the save location for the
WSDL document, ignore the incorrect extension and continue the save. The file
will be saved with the WSDL extension.</postreq>
</taskbody>
<related-links>
<linklist><title>Related concepts</title>
<link href="../../org.eclipse.jst.ws.doc.user/concepts/cwsdl.dita" scope="peer">
<linktext>WSDL</linktext></link>
<link href="../concepts/cwsdled.dita" scope="local"></link>
</linklist>
<linklist><title>Related tasks</title>
<link href="tcrtwsdl.dita" scope="local"></link>
<link href="tedtwsdl.dita" scope="local"></link>
</linklist>
</related-links>
</task>
<?Pub *0000004517?>
