<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2005, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "task.dtd">
<task id="tsetprtt" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Setting a port type</title>
<shortdesc>A port type is a named set of abstract operations and the abstract
messages involved. Each operation refers to an input message and output messages.
A port type is referenced by a binding object. Each binding references exactly
one port type. Since each port refers to exactly one binding, each port has
exactly one port type.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>WSDL<indexterm>setting port types</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>Web services<indexterm>setting port types</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<context><p>You can create a port type by right clicking in any blank space
in the Design view and selecting <uicontrol>Add PortType</uicontrol>. As a
convenience you can also add a port type via a binding. This allows you to
create a port type and modify the binding to reference the new port type in
one action. You can either create a new port type for your binding, re-use
an existing one, or import one.</p></context>
</taskbody>
<task id="createporttype">
<title>Create a new port type for a binding</title>
<taskbody>
<context><p>If you want to create a new port type for your binding, follow
these steps:</p></context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>In the Design view, right-click on a binding object (note that
port must reference a binding) and click <b>Set Port Type > New PortType</b>.</cmd>
</step>
<step><cmd>Type the name of the port type in the <b>Name</b> field.</cmd>
<info>The name should be unique name among all port types defined within in
the enclosing WSDL document. Click <b>OK</b>. To select the new port type,
click the port type object.</info></step>
<step><cmd>In the Properties view, type any information about the port type
you wish the user to read in the <b>Documentation</b> pane.</cmd></step>
</steps>
<result><p> <b>Tip</b>: You can also create a new port type for your binding
using the Outline view.</p><p>Once you have created a port type, you can add
operations to it, which can send and receive messages.</p></result>
</taskbody>
</task>
<task id="reuseporttype">
<title>Reuse a port type for a binding</title>
<taskbody>
<context><p>If you want to reuse a port type for your binding, follow these
steps:</p></context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>In the Design view, right-click on a binding object (note that
port must reference a binding) and click  <b>Set Port Type > Existing PortType</b>.</cmd>
</step>
<step><cmd>In the <b>Name</b> field, type a search string to filter the list
or leave the field blank to view all.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>You can change the scope of the list by selecting one of the following
options:</cmd>
<choices>
<choice><b>Workspace</b>. Lists the port types available in your workspace.</choice>
<choice><b>Enclosing Project</b>. Lists the port types available in the project
that contains your file.</choice>
<choice><b>Current Resource</b>. Lists the port types available in your current
file.</choice>
<choice><b>Working Sets</b>. Lists the port types available in a specified
set of files. To specify a working set, click <b>Choose</b>. You can select
files from an existing working set or create a new working set. Once you have
selected the files, click <b>OK</b>.</choice>
</choices>
</step>
<step><cmd>The existing port types will be listed. Select one and click <b>OK</b>.</cmd>
</step>
</steps>
</taskbody>
</task>
<task id="importporttype">
<title>Import a port type for a binding</title>
<taskbody>
<context><p>If you want to import an existing port type for your binding,
follow these steps:</p></context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>In the Design view, right-click on a binding object (note that
port must reference a binding) and click  <b>Set Port Type > Existing PortType.</b></cmd>
</step>
<step><cmd>In the <b>Name</b> field, type a search string to filter the list
or leave the field blank to view all.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>You can import a port type by selecting one of the following options:</cmd>
<choices>
<choice><b>Workspace</b>. Lists the port types available in your workspace.</choice>
<choice><b>Enclosing Project</b>. Lists the port types available in the project
that contains your file.</choice>
<choice><b>Working Sets</b>. Lists the port types available in a specified
set of files. To specify a working set, click <b>Choose</b>. You can select
files from an existing working set or create a new working set. Once you have
selected the files, click <b>OK</b>.</choice>
</choices>
</step>
<step><cmd>The port types will be listed. Select one and click <b>OK</b>.
In the Design view, click the port type object.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>In the Properties view, type any information about the port type
you wish the user to read in the <b>Documentation</b> pane.</cmd></step>
</steps>
</taskbody>
<related-links>
<linklist><title>Related concepts</title>
<link href="../concepts/cwsdled.dita" scope="local"></link>
</linklist>
<linklist><title>Related tasks</title>
<link href="tcrtwsdl.dita" scope="local"></link>
<link href="tedtwsdl.dita" scope="local"></link>
</linklist>
</related-links>
</task>
</task>
<?Pub *0000005308?>
