<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2005, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<concept id="cwsiover" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Web services interoperability (WS-I)</title>
<shortdesc>WS-I is an organization designed to promote Web service interoperability
across platforms, operating systems, and programming languages.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>Web services interoperability<indexterm>traffic compliance</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>interoperability<indexterm>Web service traffic compliance</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<conbody>
<p>For more information on WS-I, refer to their Web site:  <xref format="html"
href="http://www.ws-i.org/" scope="external">http://www.ws-i.org/</xref>.
This site contains resources such as an overview of Web services interoperability,
usage scenarios, and specifications.</p>
<p>WS-I Basic Profile is a outline of requirements to which WSDL and Web service
protocol (SOAP/HTTP) traffic must comply in order to claim WS-I conformance.
The Web services WS-I validation tools currently support WS-I Simple SOAP
Binding Profile 1.0 (WS-I SSBP) which builds on the WS-I Basic Profile, and
the WS-I Attachments Profile 1.0 (WS-I AP). To view the specifications, refer
to the WS-I Web site, and under  <uicontrol>Deliverables</uicontrol> select
 <uicontrol>Basic Profile</uicontrol>.</p>
<p>Depending on the type of Web service being created, you may or may not
want your Web service to comply with the WS-I profiles. The default level
of compliance is to generate a warning if a non WS-I SSBP complaint Web service
option is selected and to ignore any non WS-I AP compliant selections. You
can set the level of WS-I compliance at the workspace or project level. The
Web services wizards, the <tm tmclass="ibm" tmowner="IBM Corporation" tmtype="reg"
trademark="WebSphere">WebSphere</tm> run-time environments, the WSDL editor,
and other Web services tools provided support and encourage the development
of WS-I compliance services.</p>
</conbody>
<related-links>
<linklist><title>Related Tasks</title>
<link href="../tasks/twsicomply.dita"></link>
</linklist>
</related-links>
</concept>
