<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2005, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"  "concept.dtd">
<concept id="cwsinwsa" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Tools for Web services development</title>
<conbody>
<p>Tools are provided to assist with the following aspects of Web services
development:</p>
<ul>
<li> <uicontrol>Discover</uicontrol>. Browse the UDDI Business Registries
or WSIL documents to locate existing Web services for integration.</li>
<li> <uicontrol>Create or Transform</uicontrol>. Create bottom-up Web services
from existing artifacts, such as <tm tmclass="special" tmowner="Sun Microsystems, Inc."
tmtype="tm" trademark="Java">Java</tm> beans and enterprise beans. Create
top-down Web services from WSDL discovered from others or created using the
WSDL Editor.</li>
<li> <uicontrol>Build</uicontrol>. Wrap existing artifacts as SOAP accessible
services and describe them in WSDL. The Web services wizards assist you in
generating a <tm tmclass="special" tmowner="Sun Microsystems, Inc." tmtype="tm"
trademark="Java">Java</tm> client proxy to Web services described in WSDL
and in generating <tm tmclass="special" tmowner="Sun Microsystems, Inc." tmtype="tm"
trademark="Java">Java</tm> bean skeletons from WSDL.</li>
<li> <uicontrol>Deploy</uicontrol>. Deploy Web services into a variety of
test environments.</li>
<li> <uicontrol>Test</uicontrol>. Test Web services running locally or remotely
in order to get instant feedback.</li>
<li> <uicontrol>Develop</uicontrol>. Generate sample applications to assist
you in creating your own Web service client application.</li>
<li> <uicontrol>Publish</uicontrol>. Publish Web services to a UDDI v2 or
v3 Business Registry, advertising your Web services so that other businesses
and clie<?Pub Caret?>nts can access them.</li>
</ul>
</conbody>
<related-links>
<linklist><title>Related Concepts</title>
<link href="cws.dita"></link>
</linklist>
<linklist><title>Related Tasks</title>
<link href="../tasks/toverws.dita" scope="local"><linktext> Developing Web
services</linktext></link>
</linklist>
</related-links>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000002161?>
