<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2006, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "../../dtd/task.dtd">
<task id="creatinganapachetomcatserver" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Creating an Apache Tomcat server and Web project</title>
<shortdesc>If you plan to create a Web service that uses Apache Jakarta Tomcat
as its server, Tomcat must be installed and a server created before you begin
creating your Web service.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm keyref="ttomcatserv|1|AxisruntimeenvironmentcreatinganApacheTomcatserver"
status="unchanged">Axis runtime environment<indexterm>Apache Tomcat</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm keyref="ttomcatserv|2|TomcatservercreatingserversforWebservices"
status="unchanged">Apache Tomcat<indexterm>servers for Web services</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm keyref="ttomcatserv|3|WebservicescreatinganApacheTomcatserver"
status="unchanged">Web services<indexterm>creating an Apache Tomcat server</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<prereq>Install Apache Jakarta Tomcat from this URL: <xref href="http://jakarta.apache.org/tomcat"
scope="external">http://jakarta.apache.org/tomcat</xref></prereq>
<context>Once you have installed the server, create a Tomcat server in the
workbench by doing the following: </context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>From the File menu, select <uicontrol>New > Other > Server > Server
> Next</uicontrol>.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Select Tomcat v 3.x, 4.x, v5.x, or 6.x as the server type, electing
the correct version of Tomcat for your install, and click <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol>.</cmd>
</step>
<step><cmd>On the Tomcat server page:</cmd>
<substeps>
<substep><cmd>Enter a server name.</cmd></substep>
<substep><cmd>Specify where Tomcat is installed.</cmd></substep>
<substep><cmd>Click <uicontrol>Installed JREs</uicontrol>, click <uicontrol>Add</uicontrol>,
and enter the appropriate information for the JDK you plan to use for Tomcat.
For example, for Tomcat v5.0 the JRE name would be jdk141 and the JRE home
would be the home directory for JDK 1.4.1. Click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> twice
once you have entered this information. Ensure that the newly added JDK is
now selected in the JRE field of the Tomcat server page. Note that if you
point the server at a JRE rather than a JDK the JSPs will not properly compile
and will not be able to run on the Tomcat server.</cmd></substep>
</substeps>
</step>
<step><cmd>Click <uicontrol>Finish</uicontrol>.</cmd><stepresult> To see the
server you have created in the workspace, from the Window menu select <uicontrol>Show
view > Other > Server > Servers > Ok.</uicontrol> </stepresult></step>
</steps>
<example><p>To build a dynamic Web project that points to the Tomcat server
that you have created:</p><ol>
<li>Create the service Web project by selecting <uicontrol>New > Dynamic Web
project</uicontrol>. Enter the following information: <ul>
<li>Project Name: enter a project name</li>
<li>Target runtime: Tomcat server v3.x, 4.x, 5.x, or 6.0 depending on the
version you installed. If it is not listed, click New and browse to the location
where it is installed.</li>
<li>Ensure that <uicontrol>Add project to an EAR</uicontrol> is <i>not</i> selected.</li>
</ul></li>
<li>Click <uicontrol>Finish</uicontrol>.</li>
<li>To associate the project with the server, right-click the Tomcat server
you created in the Server view and select <uicontrol>Add and remove projects</uicontrol>.
Select the service and client projects from the Available projects list and
click <uicontrol>Add</uicontrol>. </li>
</ol></example>
</taskbody>
</task>
