<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2006, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "../../dtd/task.dtd">
<task id="tsklwsdla" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Creating a <tm tmclass="special" tmowner="Sun Microsystems, Inc." tmtype="tm"
trademark="Java">Java</tm> bean skeleton from a WSDL document using the Apache
Axis1 runtime environment</title>
<titlealts>
<searchtitle>Creating a Java bean skeleton from a WSDL document using the
Apache Axis1 runtime environment</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>The Web service wizard assists you in creating a skeleton bean
from an existing WSDL document. The skeleton bean contains a set of methods
that correspond to the operations described in the WSDL document. When the
bean is created, each method has a trivial implementation that you replace
by editing the bean.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm keyref="tsklwsdla|1|AxisruntimeenvironmentskeletonWebservices"
status="unchanged">Axis runtime environment<indexterm>Web services<indexterm>skeleton</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm keyref="tsklwsdla|2|WebservicesAxisruntimeenvironmentskeletonWebservices"
status="unchanged">Web services<indexterm>Axis runtime environment<indexterm>skeleton
Web services</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<prereq><p>Prerequisites:</p><ol>
<li conref="twsbeana.dita#twsbeana/createtomcatlink"></li>
<li>Create or import a WSDL file into the Web Content folder of the Web project.
You can only use a WSDL file that contains a service element.</li>
</ol></prereq>
<context>To create a Web service from a WSDL file using the Apache Axis1 runtime
environment:</context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>Switch to the Java EE perspective (<uicontrol>Window > Open Perspective
> Java EE</uicontrol>).</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>In the Project Explorer view, select the WSDL file that you created
or imported into the Web Content folder of your Web project.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Click  <uicontrol>File > New > Other</uicontrol>. Select  <uicontrol>Web
Services</uicontrol> in order to display the various Web service wizards.
Select the  <uicontrol>Web Service</uicontrol> wizard. Click  <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol>.</cmd>
</step>
<step><cmd>Web Services page: select  <uicontrol>Top down Java bean Web service</uicontrol> as
your Web service type, and select the artifact from which the service will
be created.</cmd>
<substeps conref="twsbeana.dita#twsbeana/createstep4ul">
<substep><cmd></cmd></substep>
</substeps>
</step>
<step><cmd>Web Services Skeleton <tm tmclass="special" tmowner="Sun Microsystems, Inc."
tmtype="tm" trademark="Java">Java</tm> Bean Configuration page: Select the
folder where the generated <tm tmclass="special" tmowner="Sun Microsystems, Inc."
tmtype="tm" trademark="Java">Java</tm> will be stored. If you want to review
or edit the mappings between packages and namespaces, select the  <uicontrol>Define
custom mapping for namespace to package</uicontrol> check box. Click  <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol>.</cmd>
</step>
<step><cmd>Web Service Namespace to Package Mappings page: if you selected
 <uicontrol>Define custom mapping for package to namespace</uicontrol> on
the previous panel, you can enter your custom mapping pairs on this panel
by clicking  <uicontrol>Add</uicontrol>. Alternately, you can click  <b>Import</b> to
import custom mapping pairs from a  <systemoutput>.properties</systemoutput> file.
The content of the properties file must be of the format  <codeph><varname>namespace=package</varname></codeph>.
Click  <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol>.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Web Service Test page: If you selected to test the Web service,
select the test facility for the generated Web service. This will open the
Web service in the Web Services Explorer. Select the operation you want to
test, enter the required information, and click  <uicontrol>Go</uicontrol>.
The result will display in the Status pane. Click  <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol>.</cmd>
</step>
<step><cmd>Web Service Proxy page: If you have selected to generate a proxy,
this page shows the options for the proxy. It lists the folder where the proxy
will be generated, and you can optionally create custom mappings between namespaces
and packages. Click  <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol>.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Web Service Client Test page: Use this page to select the following
options: </cmd>
<substeps>
<substep><cmd>Select your test facility. You can test the generated proxy
in the Web Service Explorer, or you can generate a sample Web service JSP.</cmd>
</substep>
<substep><cmd>If you selected to test the proxy through a JSP, you can select
the folder where the JSP will be located, and you can select the methods that
will be included in the JSP.</cmd></substep>
<substep><cmd>Select  <uicontrol>Run test on server</uicontrol> to start the
server for you automatically.</cmd></substep>
</substeps>
</step>
<step><cmd>Web Service Publication page: If you have selected to publish your
Web service to a UDDI registry, use this page to launch the Web Services Explorer
and select the UDDI registry to which the Web service will be published. Click
 <uicontrol>Finish</uicontrol>.</cmd></step>
</steps>
<result conref="twsbeana.dita#twsbeana/axiswscreateresult">After the Web service
has been created, the following may occur depending on the options you selected: <ul>
<li>If you have selected to test the generated proxy using Web service JSPs,
the proxy is launched in a Web browser at the following URL: <codeph>http://localhost: <varname>port</varname>/ <varname>WebProject</varname>Client/sample<i
>BeanName</i>/<varname>WebServiceName</varname>/TestClient.jsp</codeph> You
can use this sample application to test the Web service by selecting a method,
entering a value for the method, and clicking  <uicontrol>Invoke</uicontrol>.
The result of the method will display in the results pane.</li>
<li>If you have selected to test the Web service using the Web Services Explorer,
the Explorer will open. Select the operation you want to test, enter the required
information, and click  <b>Go</b>. The result will display in the Status pane.</li>
<li>If you have selected to publish the Web service, the Web Services Explorer
is launched displaying the page required to publish your Web service. Follow
the instructions in <varname>Publishing the Web service</varname> to complete
this task.</li>
</ul></result>
</taskbody>
<related-links>
<linklist><title>Related Concepts</title>
<link href="../../org.eclipse.jst.ws.doc.user/concepts/cwsinwsa.dita" scope="peer">
<linktext> Tools for Web services development</linktext></link>
<link href="../../org.eclipse.jst.ws.doc.user/concepts/cws.dita" scope="peer">
<linktext>Web services development</linktext></link>
</linklist>
<linklist><title>Related Tasks</title>
<link href="../../org.eclipse.jst.ws.doc.user/tasks/toverws.dita" scope="peer">
<linktext> Developing Web services</linktext></link>
<link href="../../org.eclipse.jst.ws.consumption.ui.doc.user/tasks/tuddiexp.dita"
scope="peer"><linktext> Using the Web Services Explorer</linktext></link>
</linklist>
<linklist><title>Related Reference</title>
<link href="../../org.eclipse.jst.ws.doc.user/ref/rwsdl.dita" scope="peer">
<linktext>WSDL documents</linktext></link>
</linklist>
</related-links>
</task>
