<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2006, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "task.dtd">
<task id="twsdlval" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Validating WSDL files</title>
<titlealts>
<searchtitle>Validating WSDL files</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>If you have created a WSDL file through the Web services wizard
the WSDL that is generated should be valid. However, if you have imported
a WSDL file, or if you are creating a WSDL file, you should validate the WSDL
to ensure it is valid.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm keyref="twsdlval|1|WSDLvalidating" status="unchanged">WSDL
files<indexterm>validating</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm keyref="twsdlval|2|WebservicesvalidatingWSDL"
status="unchanged">Web services<indexterm>validating WSDL</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<context><p>If you have selected Require or Suggest WS-I Compliance on the
WS-I Compliance preference page, the validation also checks WS-I compliance.
If you have selected Ignore WS-I Compliance the validator will only check
the validity of the WSDL. For more information on setting WS-I compliance
levels, refer to:  <xref href="../../org.eclipse.jst.ws.doc.user/tasks/twsicomply.dita"
scope="peer"> Setting the level of WS-I compliance</xref>.</p><p>The WSDL
Validator compares the WSDL file in your project to the W3C  <xref format="html"
href="http://www.w3.org/TR/wsdl" scope="external">Web Services Description
Language (WSDL) 1.1</xref> specifications, and the WS-I compliance settings
that you have selected.</p><p>To validate your WSDL, complete the following
steps:</p></context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>Select a WSDL file in the  <b>Project Navigator</b> view.</cmd>
</step>
<step><cmd>Right-click the WSDL file, and select  <b>Validate</b></cmd></step>
</steps>
<result>Any problems encountered while validating the file will be shown in
the  <b>Tasks</b> view.<p>When you rebuild a project or save a resource, the
WSDL Validator can be set to run automatically. To do this, from the Window
menu, select  <b>Preferences</b> >  <b>Validation</b>. Ensure that the WSDL
Validator check box in the Build column is selected.</p></result>
</taskbody>
<related-links>
<linklist><title>Related Concepts</title>
<link href="../../org.eclipse.jst.ws.doc.user/concepts/cwsdl.dita" scope="peer">
<linktext>WSDL</linktext></link>
<link href="../../org.eclipse.jst.ws.doc.user/concepts/cwsiover.dita" scope="peer">
<linktext>WS-I</linktext></link>
</linklist>
<linklist><title>Related Tasks</title>
<link href="../../org.eclipse.jst.ws.doc.user/tasks/twsicomply.dita" scope="peer">
<linktext>Setting WS-I compliance</linktext></link>
</linklist>
</related-links>
</task>
