<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2005, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "task.dtd">
<task id="toverws" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Developing Web services</title>
<shortdesc>Use Web services tools to discover, create, and publish Web services
that are created from <tm tmclass="special" tmowner="Sun Microsystems, Inc."
tmtype="tm" trademark="Java">Java</tm> beans, enterprise beans, and WSDL files.
You can create of Web services using a top-down approach (which starts with
a WSDL file) or a bottom-up approach (which starts with a <tm tmclass="special"
tmowner="Sun Microsystems, Inc." tmtype="tm" trademark="Java">Java</tm> bean
or EJB).</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>Web services<indexterm>creating<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<context><p>In this release, the development path that you would typically
follow to create and publish a Web service is as follows:</p></context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>Create a Web project.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Create or import an artifact to be turned into a Web service.</cmd>
</step>
<step><cmd>Create a Web service.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Publish a business entity.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Publish a Web service.</cmd></step>
</steps>
<result><p>For instructions on performing these tasks, refer to the list of
related topics at the end of this topic.</p><p>Web tools assist you in developing
Web applications that you can configure as a Web service. Web applications
are developed in a Web project, and Server tools allow you to use the server
test environment to test and deploy your Web services.</p></result>
</taskbody>
<related-links>
<linklist><title>Related Concepts</title>
<link href="../concepts/cws.dita" scope="local"><linktext>Web services overview</linktext>
</link>
<link href="../concepts/cwsinwsa.dita" scope="local"><linktext>Tools for Web
services development</linktext></link>
<link href="../concepts/cwsbtmup.dita" scope="local"><linktext>Creating bottom-up
Web services</linktext></link>
<link href="../concepts/cwstopdown.dita" scope="local"><linktext>Creating
top-down Web services</linktext></link>
</linklist>
<linklist><title>Related Tasks</title>
<link href="../../org.eclipse.wst.wsdl.ui.doc.user/tasks/tcrtwsdl.dita" scope="peer">
<linktext>Creating a new WSDL file</linktext></link>
<link href="../../org.eclipse.jst.ws.consumption.ui.doc.user/tasks/tuddiexp.dita"
scope="peer"><linktext>Publishing Web services and business entities</linktext>
</link>
</linklist>
</related-links>
</task>
