<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2005, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="treg" xml:lang="en-us"><?Pub Caret?>
<title>Registering with a UDDI registry</title>
<titlealts>
<searchtitle>Registering with a UDDI Registry</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>In order to publish your business entity and Web service to a UDDI
registry, you must first register with the registry that you want to use.</shortdesc>
<taskbody>
<context><p>There are many different public and private registries with which
you can register.&nbsp; For a list of public registries refer to  <xref href="http://www.uddi.org/register.html"
scope="external">www.uddi.org/register.html</xref> Since each registry is
different, the registry provider will give you instructions for registering.</p><p>The
following registries are automatically added to Favorites:</p><ul>
<li><tm tmclass="ibm" tmowner="IBM Corporation" tmtype="reg" trademark="IBM">IBM</tm> UDDI
Registry</li>
<li><tm tmclass="ibm" tmowner="IBM Corporation" tmtype="reg" trademark="IBM">IBM</tm> UDDI
Test Registry</li>
<li><tm tmclass="special" tmowner="Microsoft Corporation" tmtype="reg" trademark="Microsoft">Microsoft</tm> UDDI
Registry</li>
<li><tm tmclass="special" tmowner="Microsoft Corporation" tmtype="reg" trademark="Microsoft">Microsoft</tm> UDDI
Test Registry</li>
<li>SAP UDDI Registry</li>
<li>SAP UDDI Test Registry</li>
<li>XMethods Registry</li>
<li>NTT Communications Registry</li>
</ul><p>You can use any of these registries by selecting the Favorites icon
in the Web Services Explorer toolbar. All of these registries are based on
the UDDI Business Registry Version 2. Go to the following URL to obtain a
user ID and password for the <tm tmclass="ibm" tmowner="IBM Corporation" tmtype="reg"
trademark="IBM">IBM</tm> UDDI registry:  <xref format="html" href="http://www-3.ibm.com/services/uddi/"
scope="external">www.ibm.com/services/uddi/</xref>. The details page of each
registry will have registration instructions.</p><p>The <tm tmclass="ibm"
tmowner="IBM Corporation" tmtype="reg" trademark="IBM">IBM</tm> UDDI Test
Registry allows you to develop your Web service and experience the UDDI registration
process without placing your Web service in an official registry. Use the <tm
tmclass="ibm" tmowner="IBM Corporation" tmtype="reg" trademark="IBM">IBM</tm> UDDI
Test Registry or a private registry to experiment with UDDI, and to test and
validate your Web service.&nbsp;The public production registries are listed
under Favorites. The Web Services Explorer does not preload any registries
by default.&nbsp; You can preload registries from the favorites section of
the Web Services Explorer or by using the Unit Test UDDI wizard. You can also
preload and configure private registries using the Unit Test UDDI wizard.
On the Open Registry page of the Web Services Explorer, you can select from
public registries and registries listed in your favorites to automatically
fill in the information required to open a particular registry.</p></context>
</taskbody>
<related-links>
<linklist><title>Related Concepts</title>
<link href="../../org.eclipse.jst.ws.doc.user/concepts/cwsinwsa.dita" scope="peer">
<linktext> Tools for Web services development</linktext></link>
<link href="../../org.eclipse.jst.ws.doc.user/concepts/cws.dita" scope="peer">
<linktext>Web services development</linktext></link>
<link href="../concepts/cuddi.dita"></link>
</linklist>
<linklist><title>Related Tasks</title>
<link href="tuddiexp.dita"></link>
<link href="tstrtexp.dita"></link>
</linklist>
<linklist><title>Related Reference</title>
<link href="../ref/ruddi.dita"></link>
</linklist>
</related-links>
</task>
<?Pub *0000003759?>
