<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2005, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "task.dtd">
<task id="tuddiexp" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Publishing Web services and business entities</title>
<titlealts>
<searchtitle>Publishing Web services and business entities with the Web Services
Explorer</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>Through UDDI and WSIL, other applications can discover WSDL documents
and bind with them to execute transactions or perform other business processes. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>Web Services<indexterm>publishing<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>business entities<indexterm>publishing</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>Web Services Explorer<indexterm>publishing Web services</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<context><p>UDDI enables the discovery of Web services by providing a distributed
registry of businesses and their service descriptions, implemented in a common
XML format.&nbsp; In order for a service requestor to discover a service,
a service provider must first publish a business entity and at least one business
service, and service interface in a UDDI registry.&nbsp; The Web Services
Explorer is a Web application that supports the publication, discovery, and
maintenance of business entities, business services, and service interfaces.</p><p>WSIL
enables the discovery of Web services by defining a distributed service discovery
method that supplies references to service descriptions at the service provider's
point-of-offering, by specifying how to inspect a Web site for available Web
services.&nbsp; The WSIL specification defines the locations on a Web site
where you can look for Web service descriptions.&nbsp;Since WSIL focuses on
distributed service discovery, the WSIL specification complements UDDI by
facilitating the discovery of services that are available on Web sites that
may not be listed yet in a UDDI registry. The Web Services Explorer allows
you to generate and explore WSIL documents.</p><p>The favorites page of the
Web Services Explorer allows you to store the location of UDDI registries,
business entities, Web services, service interfaces, as well as WSIL and WSDL
documents.</p><p>Use the Web Services Explorer to do any of the following
tasks:</p><ul>
<li> <xref href="taddreg.dita">Add a registry to the Web Services Explorer</xref> </li>
<li> <xref href="tbkmrk.dita">Adding a registry, business entity, business
service, service interface, WSIL, or WSDL service to Favorites</xref> </li>
<li><xref href="tlogexp.dita"></xref></li>
<li> <xref href="tdiscov.dita">Discover a Web service</xref> </li>
<li> <xref href="tpubent.dita">Publish a business entity to a registry</xref> </li>
<li> <xref href="tpublish.dita">Publish a business service to a registry</xref> </li>
<li> <xref href="tunpub.dita">Remove a business entity, business service,
or service interface from a registry</xref> </li>
<li> <xref href="tupdate.dita">Update a business entity, business service,
or service interface</xref> </li>
<li> <xref href="tbusproj.dita">Manage referenced services</xref> </li>
<li> <xref href="tassert.dita">Manage publisher assertions</xref> </li>
</ul><p>Prerequisites:</p></context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>Before you can use the Web Services Explorer to perform any of
these functions, you must  <xref href="treg.dita">register with a public registry</xref>.&nbsp;
There are many different registries with which you can register.</cmd><info></info>
</step>
<step><cmd>Ensure that you are using a supported Web browser.</cmd><info>The
following Web browsers and versions are supported:<ul>
<li>Internet Explorer: 6.0 and up</li>
<li>Mozilla: 1.2.1 and up</li>
</ul></info></step>
<step><cmd> <xref href="tstrtexp.dita">Launch the Web Services Explorer</xref>.</cmd>
</step>
</steps>
<result><p><b>Known limitations of the Web Services Explorer:</b><ul>
<li>The taxonomy categories in the Web Services Explorer are not translated
since they must match those in the standards adhered to by UDDI (ISO, UNSPSC
7.3, NAICS).</li>
<li>The Web Services Explorer will launch without the browser toolbar which
shows, amongst other things, the URL to the Web application. This URL should
only be used by users with accessibility needs. The URL to the Web Services
Explorer Web application can be obtained through the following steps:<ol>
<li>From the Window menu, select Preferences.</li>
<li>In the Preferences dialog, select <uicontrol>Web Browser</uicontrol> in
the left pane.</li>
<li>On the right, select <uicontrol>Use external Web Browser</uicontrol>.</li>
<li>In the <uicontrol>Location: text</uicontrol> field, browse or type in
the full path of the Internet Explorer executable. (for example, C:\Program
Files\Internet Explorer\iexplore.exe).</li>
<li>Click <uicontrol>Apply</uicontrol> followed by <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol>.</li>
</ol> Note that this preference will now apply to any browser windows that
are launched by the user or by the tools themselves (such as the Universal
Test Client).  The Web Services Explorer will now launch in an external browser
and its URL should be in the Address field. This can then be pasted or opened
using am accessibility assisting browser.</li>
<li>When performing an advanced find or publish in the UDDI page of the Web
Services Explorer, the items in the drop down list for picking a language
in conjunction with a name or description is sorted  according to the operating
system's locale settings. On <tm tmclass="special" tmowner="Microsoft Corporation"
tmtype="reg" trademark="Windows">Windows</tm>, this order may be managed through
the Control Panel. To do this:<ol>
<li>Open the Control Panel.</li>
<li>Launch the Regional Options control panel applet.</li>
<li>In the General tab of the resulting dialog, there may be a "Sorting order"
drop-down list. If so, pick a sorting order and then click <uicontrol>Apply</uicontrol> followed
by <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol>.</li>
<li>In the Web Services Explorer, the new sorting order comes into effect
once the page reloads. This can be accomplished by pressing the back arrow
followed by the forward arrow in the main toolbar.</li>
</ol>Note: The instructions above apply to <tm tmclass="special" tmowner="Microsoft Corporation"
tmtype="reg" trademark="Windows">Windows</tm> 2000. On <tm tmclass="special"
tmowner="Microsoft Corporation" tmtype="reg" trademark="Windows">Windows</tm> XP,
the tab mentioned in step 3 is called "Regional Options". Beside the language
drop-down, there is a <uicontrol>Customize</uicontrol> button. When this is
clicked, a new dialog appears. A sorting tab will allow users to pick the
sorting method if applicable.</li>
</ul></p></result>
</taskbody>
<related-links>
<linklist><title>Related Concepts</title>
<link href="../../org.eclipse.jst.ws.doc.user/concepts/cwsinwsa.dita" scope="peer">
<linktext> Tools for Web services development</linktext></link>
<link href="../../org.eclipse.jst.ws.doc.user/concepts/cws.dita" scope="peer">
<linktext>Web services development</linktext></link>
<link href="../concepts/cuddi.dita"></link>
</linklist>
<linklist><title>Related Tasks</title>
<link href="tuddiexp.dita"></link>
<link href="tstrtexp.dita"></link>
<link href="twsdlexp.dita"></link>
<link href="../../org.eclipse.jst.ws.doc.user/tasks/toverws.dita" scope="peer">
<linktext> Developing Web services</linktext></link>
</linklist>
<linklist><title>Related Reference</title>
<link href="../ref/ruddi.dita"></link>
</linklist>
</related-links>
</task>
